fire chief say Saturday is looming as
one of the worst days for bushfires in
living memory gale force winds are
expected to accompany the extreme heat
horror weekend ahead with the mercury
predicted to top the 40s again on
Saturday a warning the public to prepare
for the worst given last week's heatwave
it has totally and completely dried the
state and given the weather and given
the state of the fuel we're in probably
uncharted territory in terms of fire
danger
let's start off by our situation last
week we had a heat wave and you'll
remember that I talked about a whole
range of consequences out of heat wave
people didn't didn't really appreciate
well on the news last night they talked
about morgues being full did anyone pick
up that story that we talked about the
Chicago heat wave and what that means
it's really important to understand and
appreciate the significance of that
event in the history of Victoria and
I've written my firemen article this
week talking about maybe we're being a
part of history and I believe there's a
real opportunity for CFA in this next
short period to be recognized as as
being a very historical part of CFA's
history over the next short period and
in giving this briefing about the
weather tomorrow I want you to reach
back I want you to reach back to last
week to see how we as a community and we
are see if I cope with the event and the
fire services and emergency services in
particular situation is quite clearly in
a weather sense for tomorrow
that that we are in almost uncharted
territory and when I say uncharted
territory there are no records that show
the sort of fire conditions tomorrow
predicted and weather conditions
tomorrow there are no records that are
worse than the details that are up for
tomorrow on Wednesday I had the day off
and on Wednesday night I went on the
little trusty computer and it works
pretty well and I looked at the weather
forecast and when I looked at it I
thought I couldn't say I've had too much
to drink because I'm doing that fehb
fast thing and those who want to give me
money later you can give it to me but I
looked at I said these figures have got
to be wrong there's got to be a glitch
in the computer because it had 14 of our
20 odd sites had f-d eyes have above
over hundred now I'll go through them in
a minute I looked at it again in the
morning
and they hadn't changed I rang you and
while or the chief at DSE he said to me
no they're not wrong it's not looking
good and when I show you the figures in
a minute or two and explain them
they've actually gone a little bit worse
so a weather situation is we're in
uncharted territory our fire danger
being a combination of weather and fuel
if last week didn't stuff the fuel in
the state of Victoria nothing ever will
and our weather conditions are as bad as
they can get hot northerly winds low
humidity strong winds and a
southwesterly wind change with no rain
okay so we're as bad as it can get